pensive music
[sighs]
Oh, good. [sighs]
It wasn't a dream.
[sighs]
Hello.
Hi.
Have you seen my watch?
Are you okay?
Yes, I'm fine. I'm--
I think I'm just a bit, um...
disoriented.
I should probably head home.
Thank you for a--
I don't mean to say "thank you."
Then I had a lovely--
I enjoyed our evening very much.
Me too. Me too.
I hope there are many more.
[sniffles]
Eleanor?
Oh.
pensive music
-[door closes]
-[exhales]
Mrs. Roosevelt.
[camera shutter clicking]
This land is your land
This land is my land
From California
To the New York island
From the redwood forest
To the Gulf Stream waters
I tell you
This land
Was made for you and me
Yeah
One bright sunny morning
In the shadow of a steeple
Down by the welfare office
I saw my people
I was wondering
If this land
Was made for you and me
-[clamoring]
-Madam First Lady!
You need to repeal
the Defense of Marriage Act!
-Support gay marriage!
-[all] Yeah!
Is Amendment One
in North Carolina
-a priority for the president?
-Hold on.
I'm sorry. Amendment One?
Amendment One prohibits
not only marriage
but civil unions
for same-sex couples.
And, if it passes, this law
will decimate LGBT families.
-[all] Yeah!
-Does he want that?
I assure you, the president
is committed to protecting
the rights of LGBT families
and preventing the erosion
of their civil rights,
of their dignity.
How? What is he doing?
How is he helping?
Thank you. The First Lady
has an engagement.
Are all families equal
to the president or not?
Tell him to lead!
[clamoring continues]
Hey, Mom?
Why were those people
shouting at you?
[sighs] You heard about that.
-I saw it on YouTube.
-What happened?
Well, a group of gay activists
gate-crashed.
They were protesting
Amendment One
of the Defense of Marriage Act.
They want Daddy
to protect gay families.
Well, but a president
can't just strike down a law.
That's why we have
the legislative branch,
the judiciary.
Well, that's why I'm supporting
strong civil unions.
The Defense of Marriage Act
stinks.
It says that marriage is a union
between a man and a woman only.
It means states
like North Carolina
can continue to tear apart
gay families.
Well, if you say something,
the people
will listen to you, Dad.
Ah... It--
[scoffs] This is about
the election, isn't it?
[Barack]
Well, it's about the fact that
marriage is different things
for different people.
If I was gay and Sasha wasn't,
should the law treat me
and Sasha differently?
Malia, I get that
you're frustrated. All right?
It's not as simple
as you're making it out,
but we decided that there would
be no politics at the table.
Got it?
Thank you.
If we can't be idealists
up in here, what's the point?
If I speak out on this,
I lose the churches.
I lose the South. I lose.
Barack.
Your white mother
and your Black daddy
would've been jailed,
fined or killed
just for being together.
It was illegal
because of Jim Crow.
That's your story.
It's simple. Everyone gets to
marry and love who they choose.
It is not the same thing.
Well, explain to me why
it's not the same thing, Barack.
Listen, I lose this election.
I don't help gay Americans.
I don't help Black Americans.
I don't help Americans
going without health insurance.
I help no one. Do you get it?
Mmm.
Remind me of why
you ran for president.
[door closes]
pensive music
[knocking on door]
-Who is it?
-[Malvina] It's me.
Just a minute, Tommy.
Come in.
Morning.
[Eleanor] Good morning, Tommy.
-Am I early?
-No, no.
I'm just having a slow start.
You're never slow.
Well, this morning I'm slow.
All right.
Well, here is the day so far.
It all looks fine.
You do see the meeting
with the decorator?
Yeah, well,
we can't put them off forever.
Ooh. Sorry, ma'am.
I can come back.
-No trouble, Louise.
-[Malvina] No. Go ahead.
[door closes]
So the meeting
about the State Dinner.
We have 30 minutes scheduled,
but I'm concerned
that that might
not be enough time to get--
Why don't I meet you
downstairs, Tommy?
All right.
No need to bring your coat.
[door opens, closes]
[exhales]
-Oh, I like that picture.
-Mmm, me too.
[sighs] Madam, do you prefer
the patterned fabric
or the solid
for the dining room?
Which is less expensive?
Well, the solid, but--
-The solid then.
-And what color?
Is there a blue?
-Yes, but--
-Blue, then.
Just stick with cheap, plain
and slightly uncomfortable,
and Mrs. Roosevelt
will be perfectly happy.
[decorator] Thank you.
Tommy, have you seen
our very latest issue?
Oh, I have not.
"Babies, Just Babies."
-Hmm. I wonder what it's about.
-[chuckling]
It's to the point,
which is good.
I know. Well, look at this.
"Associate Editor,
Anna Eleanor Roosevelt Dall."
That's not bad
for a 26-year-old.
-Mmm. It's Mother's magazine.
-Well...
-[footsteps approaching]
-[decorator] Madam First Lady.
Your mother-in-law,
Mrs. Roosevelt,
has some thoughts on the blue.
She's in the dining room.
I'm staying here.
Oh, for heaven's sake.
Oh, come with me, Anna,
and be my buffer.
Good luck.
[Eleanor] Honestly, it's blue.
What more is there
to think about?
Eleanor, you do not
just paint a room blue.
There is sapphire blue.
There's cerulean blue.
There's even Aruba blue,
which is actually quite green,
but it looks lovely with gold.
Well, these all sound wonderful,
Sara. Why don't you choose?
Yeah, but--
Well, you must have an opinion.
After all, this is
the White House dining room.
Well, I have plenty of opinions,
just not on the color blue.
I think what Mother
means to say is that
her attention is rather focused
on other projects.
Oh, yes. Like that ridiculous
baby magazine
you two came up with.
What are you going to
write about? Bassinets?
Not in a month of Sundays
have I seen
a more inane publication.
Anna, dear. Just because
your mother insists upon working
doesn't mean that you have to.
Grandmother, I enjoy it.
And she's good at it.
Quite formidable.
Oh. Formidable?
Yes, that's what
every man is looking for.
A formidable divorced woman.
Actually,
-I do have a decor request.
-Oh.
I would like
as many rooms as possible
to be decorated with furnishings
from the Val-Kill workshop.
It's a small furniture factory
I started with friends of mine.
A vocational program
for out-of-work farmers.
Oh.
An arts and crafts
White House. How quaint.
Functional and modest.
Just the way I like it.
And I quite like that dark pink.
Is that--
Ooh, it matches my dress.
-Yes.
-Or is that plum?
Uh, Etruscan.
Oh, yes. An entire civilization
reduced to a paint swatch.
Civilization has
nothing to do with it.
Well, good luck with your
Arubas. I'll leave you to it.
[sighs]
pensive music
[Eleanor] Well, I'll give you
the second one,
'cause the second one
is more burnt.
Can you take that one?
I think this one's ready.
-[chuckles]
-Oh.
I've got sticky fingers.
I forgot about that.
[both chuckle]
Well, that's awfully nice
of you, ma'am.
[chuckling]
Now I have a sticky face.
[both chuckling]
It hasn't been seared
into our brains because...
[no audible dialogue]
[chattering]
"The First Lady cheered
by 45,000 letters in support.
Women align
with the heroic Mrs. Ford."
-[chuckles]
-And this one is so good.
"Her candor
and lack of pretension
is the salve this country needs
after years...
[whispering]
...of secrecy and deceit."
[chuckles]
You are a salve.
How does it feel?
It feels good, I have to admit.
Oh, those crowds of women
outside my hospital room.
They were so energized.
I see the wheels turning.
Could you find me
everything you can
on where we're currently at
with the Equal Rights Act?
Absolutely. Do you know
where the president stands
-on the issue?
-Mmm. No.
I'm not sure at the moment,
but I know where I stand.
No one's been able
to get it ratified yet.
People weren't getting
mammograms last month either.
Oh.
up-tempo music
[door closes]
A whole generation
of young Americans has grown up
seeing a "Man of the Year"
on   TIME   magazine's
year-end issue.
But when   TIME   came out today,
male tradition was crushed
in one fell swoop.
Mrs. Ford, called by   TIME
"The most
since Eleanor Roosevelt,"
had a mixed reaction
to the cover.
She said,
"We have made a point."
But she also said,
"It would've been nice
to have had
a Person' of the Year."
Calling about the ERA,
Mr. Koplin.
No, it stands for
Equal Rights Amendment.
[chuckles] You should listen
to your wife, sir.
Congress voted it in,
including President Ford
when he was in the House.
That's right.
Call your state representative
and demand that they ratify it.
Governor Rhodes, the ERA
has never been concerned
with making women
the same as men.
Just equal to--
Mmm, yeah,
in the eyes of the law.
[chuckling] No, the amendment
is not anti-marriage.
That's correct, yeah.
Equal pay, equal opportunity,
equal rights.
Mm-hmm.
That's wonderful.
Thank you, Governor.
Thank your wife for me.
Bye-bye, now.
We got Ohio.
[all cheering]
The president needs to get
his plucky wife
and her dirty hippie
phone telethon under control.
Ruckelshaus' wife Jill
is helping her run
the whole operation.
Right. Suddenly,
everyone's wife, daughter,
and sister has decided
they have to become activists.
TIME   magazine has named her
one of their Women of the Year.
Yeah, and who gives a fig now?
When these women are undermining
everything the party stands for.
I mean, what's next?
A State Dinner
for the Black Panthers?
[newscaster on TV]   Patty Hearst,
daughter of
a rich and famous publisher,
claims she has now become
Tania X,
newest recruit in
the Symbionese Liberation Army.
This is what
she told her parents
by tape recording yesterday
in the latest SLA communiqué.
[Patty on TV]   Dad, you said that
you were concerned with my life,
and you also said that
you were concerned with the life
and interests of all oppressed
people in this country.
-You are a liar in both areas.
-[caller] Oh, wow.
[newscaster]   This is
what Patty's parents...
They've brainwashed her.
Maybe she really does believe
in their cause.
Okay, ladies,
we have our own cause here.
Let's keep up the fight.
We're almost there.
Back on the phones.
Madam First Lady, a word?
[chattering]
[caller 1] Chelsea,
do you have that...
-[caller 2] No, I don't.
-[caller 1] Okay.
Susan was shopping
without any detail?
-How the hell did that happen?
-Maybe she just wanted
to go shopping with her friends
without a babysitter.
She slipped out, sir.
Shopping for a prom dress,
reportedly.
Agent Austin tracked her down
within the hour.
[sighs]
-I'm fine. Everything's fine.
-Agent Keiser,
will you please tell my daughter
why this is so important?
If this is about Austin
losing me, it was my fault,
and he was fucking pissed
when he tracked me down.
-Susan.
-Suzie, sit down.
[sighs]
-What is it?
-[Keiser] We picked up rumblings
from the same organization
that kidnapped Patty Hearst
-about you.
-Rumblings?
There's been discussion of you
as one of their next
kidnapping targets.
Agent Keiser and Austin
have this all under control.
I won't ditch Austin ever again,
I swear.
Damn right you won't.
[Keiser] It's best
we take you out of school
and keep you here
with added detail.
Graduation is in
less than four weeks--
Susan, it's going to be fine.
It's my senior year!
What about prom?
I know it's the prom,
but we need to keep you safe.
Besides, you know your dad will
dance with you anytime you want.
[chuckles]
[sighs]
[door opens]
-Mmm.
-[door slams]
-Mother, are you all right?
-Mmm. Mmm. Mm-hmm.
-Excuse me, gentlemen.
-[agents] Ma'am.
-[door opens]
-I'm a good dancer.
[door closes]
[door opens]
-Can I come in?
-Well, what's stopping you?
It's not like I have
any privacy anyways.
Yes.
That's one of the things
about living in this house.
[sighs]
But we do need to keep you safe,
sweetheart.
Well, I don't feel safe.
I feel bored.
I feel pissed and trapped.
Yeah. Well,
I'd rather that than...
Robbing a bank with the SLA?
Yes, actually.
Please don't joke about that.
Did you see her
with her hat and her gun?
Yes, and I found it
very disturbing.
Do you think she's brainwashed?
I don't-- I'm not sure
that's a real thing.
None of this would be happening
if Dad weren't the president.
Well... [grunts]
Yes.
But...
it's had
some unexpected benefits.
Breast cancer,
mental health awareness.
You know,
the fight for ERA ratification.
I don't think any of that
would've happened
if your dad weren't president.
You did those things,
not the president.
I'm his wife. The First Lady.
Which brings exposure,
attention--
yeah, scrutiny.
But I've learned to enjoy it
rather than--
I don't know, resent it.
Well, we could have my prom
here at the White House.
[chuckling] What?
We have a huge house,
a kitchen, ballroom,
-staff.
-[chuckles]
Honey, I don't know.
There'll be detail everywhere.
I'll be kept safe.
I'd have to speak
to your father.
You will?
I'm not sure he'll be up for it.
But maybe. [chuckles]
I also believe that the
corporate structures can now--
This is the man
that is negotiating with the SLA
to get Patty Hearst released.
-Is it working?
-That's not the point, sir.
The point is the country's being
taken over by revolutionaries.
This administration needs to
take a stand against anything
even remotely counter-culture,
anti-establishment
and, God knows, revolutionary.
It's important
the country hear from you, sir.
Maybe we could include something
in one of your
campaign speeches?
I think they need
to hear something now.
-Thank you, sir.
-Great.
What do we have
on the Ohio state legislature...
-[door opens, closes]
-[sighs]
[TV anchor]   From the beginning,
Randolph and Catherine Hearst
have always had to
consider the possibility
they might never again
see their daughter alive.
And never more so than now,
when some of those
closest to the case
are beginning to believe...
Madam First Lady.
Mrs. Howe, may I speak with you?
Oh. If I'm not back in half
an hour, send a search party.
...a left-wing attorney
who is one of the trustees...
-[door opens]
-...for the four million dollars
-Hearst still has in the bank.
-[door closes]
What did Mr. Charming
have to say?
[chuckling] Um, do you--
do you remember the trip
that Jim and I took
to the Dominican Republic
a month ago?
-Yeah, spring break. Mm-hmm.
-Mm-hmm.
Well, the FBI is
investigating Jim because of it.
-What?
-Mmm.
His business associate
paid for it,
and apparently, it set off
all these alarm bells.
Oh, no.
Oh, Cheney got so excited
-reciting the legal code to me.
-[both chuckle]
[in deep voice] "One will not
accept gift, gratuity or favors
from certain persons
or corporations."
I mean, do you think
Jim did anything wrong?
No, of course not.
I think they are looking for any
reason to get me away from you.
Then the ERA came up.
[sighs]
They are so terrified of you.
I mean, the truth is
they're terrified of women,
but they're taking it out on you
and the president.
Now me and my husband.
Well, they're not gonna
get away with it.
Mm-mmm.
somber music
The Defense of Marriage Act,
passed in 1996
by overwhelming
bipartisan majorities,
and was signed into law
by President Clinton.
All of human experience points
to one committed relationship
between a man and a woman
as the core building block
to society.
It takes a man and a woman
to have children,
and children are necessary
for the next generation.
But these are the same arguments
that could be used to promote
marriage between
fathers and daughters,
mothers and sons or even
polygamous relationships...
-[knocking on door]
-Yes.
The VP's office says
Mr. Biden can see you now.
Thank you.
[Biden on TV]   The good news is
that as more and more Americans
come to understand
what this is all about
-is a simple proposition.
-[sighs]
Who do you love?
And will you be loyal
to the person you love?
Hey.
That's what people
are finding out...
Bo. [kisses]
...what all marriages
at their root are about.
Well, whether they're
marriages of lesbians
or gay men or heterosexuals.
[Gregory]   Is that
what you believe now?
-That's what I believe.
-[Gregory]   You're comfortable
with same-sex marriage now?
[Biden]   I am vice president
of the United States of America.
Um, the president
sets the policy.
I see your fingerprints,
Michelle.
Someone from the administration
needed to say it.
I can't have you
backseat driving.
We're partners.
You know who you married.
[Biden]
...all the civil liberties.
Quite frankly, I don't see
much of a distinction,
uh, beyond that.
I'm gonna have to
walk this back.
Do you?
Some things are bigger
than politics. You told me that.
Isn't this one of 'em?
I have to walk this back, so...
[Biden]
It's just, this is evolving.
And by the way,
my measure, David,
is I take a look at...
This could be really damaging.
...social culture changes.
I think   Will & Grace   probably
did more to educate
-the American public...
-[door opens, closes]
pensive music
We'll do that then. Thank you.
-Thank you, Mr. President.
-I'll handle that too.
Excuse me, Mr. President,
just a quick question,
I wanna make sure
I'm clear about something.
Did you approve the use of
the, uh, White House phone lines
in the East Wing
by those, uh, women?
[chuckles] Betty's gals?
I take it you don't approve.
Well, they're campaigning
for the ERA.
-You think it might be a coven?
-It's Nancy Howe.
If I'm honest, since she started
filling Mrs. Ford's head--
Betty's always supported
women's rights.
And in case you forgot,
gentlemen,
I voted for the ERA in Congress.
Doesn't mean
you have to support it now.
Why shouldn't I?
Reagan's against it.
[scoffs]
He's bashing the ERA
and Roe v. Wade,
and everything else
that Betty has championed.
He's feeling up
a run against you
by turning half the party
against her.
You know, guys,
I really don't care for it
when you pit me against my wife.
Mr. President,
the First Lady's causes
are giving Reagan
everything he needs
to secure the nomination
next year.
We expect he'll run against you.
No one runs against an incumbent
from their own party, Rummy.
Leave my wife out of it.
[door opens, closes]
[door opens]
How's the ratification fight
coming?
[Betty] We're getting
closer and closer.
[Gerald] Rummy was on my case
about it today.
Think those callers of yours
scare him.
[Betty] Good.
Was there ever
any thought of, uh,
setting up a call center
outside of the White House?
No. Why would we do that?
I was just wondering
why it has to be done here.
Because I live here, Jerry,
and we have the space
and the resources.
What's this about?
It's just... [sighs]
The First Lady running
an anti-establishment campaign
-out of the White House is--
-It's not anti-establishment.
You know what I mean.
The whole thing, it's--
Just make it-- It's putting me
in a difficult position.
Jerry, you voted
for this amendment
when you were in Congress.
And I'll vote for it again.
It's just having it shouted
from our doorstep
is making things hard for me.
Should I tell all the women
I'm fighting for
that we need to stop because it
makes my husband uncomfortable?
Damn it! This isn't about me.
It's about the party.
Reagan is gaining
with the far-right
and things like this
win them over.
Then we'll just have to
fight harder, won't we?
Oh, by the way, I promised Susan
she could have her prom here.
-[scoffs]
-Oh, that is if, of course,
unless Reagan disapproves
of school dances too.
[Gerald] Why don't we invite
the circus too?
We can have
all the animals here.
All the giraffes and the zebras.
It'll be great.
Don't forget the clowns.
Gonna have lots of clowns.
[sighs]
pensive music
Now, Mother tells me
Macfadden has ordered
100,000 copies of the magazine
for print.
It's been very rewarding.
I expect it has.
I would like to offer you
something I think
might be even more exciting.
Come work with me.
-What? [laughs]
-You could be my aide-de-camp.
You know me better than anyone.
Mother would be thrilled
with you staying on here
at the White House.
Uh... well,
what about the magazine?
I'll make sure
you have plenty of time to do
your assistant editrix duties.
[knocking on door]
Yes?
Pardon me, sir.
Mr. Hoover is here to see you.
It's fine.
Send him in, thank you, Missy.
-Mr. President.
-Edgar.
Anna, why don't you stay,
get a feel for things?
This is a delicate matter, sir.
Don't worry, Anna's thinking
of joining the team.
No better time than the present.
That's fine, Father,
we can talk about it later.
-I'll go.
-[Franklin] Okay.
Thank you, Mrs. Dall.
-Yes.
-What is it?
-[door closes]
-I should tell you
that my business
concerns the First Lady.
What has Eleanor done now?
Knocked off a liquor store?
This could be a matter
of national security, sir.
-She's with a woman.
-Yes, I have eyes.
That will be all.
Thank you, sir.
[Louis coughing]
Louis...
you must call a doctor.
Eleanor, I'm fine. Really.
I have a serious question
for you.
How's the decorating going?
It's gotten to the point
that it's easier
just to do the thing
than it is to argue about
why it's a poor use of my time.
[chuckles]
Still, somehow I've managed
to sneak away.
-For a moment anyway.
-Good for you.
I was, um--
I was sorry to hear about Hick.
What? What are you
talking about?
Well, I assumed you knew.
She resigned as, uh,
White House Correspondent today.
[clears throat]
No longer covering you.
No. Where did you hear that?
I don't know, uh, she
told someone, someone told me.
Any idea why?
-No, I haven't the foggiest.
-[coughs]
Oh, Louis.
Call a doctor or I will.
You worry too much.
And you not enough.
[blows raspberry]
[chuckles]
[sighs]
somber music
[squawking]
-[Malvina] Mrs. R.
-[knocking at door]
Mrs. R?
What is it?
It's, um...
It's-- It's Louis.
He collapsed in his office.
[gasps] Oh, no.
They rushed him
to the naval hospital.
His-- His lungs gave out.
And what do they know?
The doctors say there's nothing
more they can do.
I'm so sorry.
Thank you, Tommy.
melancholy music
[church bell tolls]
[grunts, sniffles]
[Anna] Ah.
I'm so sorry.
He worked until the very end,
didn't he?
"Democratic Nomination Speech
for Eleanor Roosevelt
for President of
the United States." Huh.
He was such a dreamer.
-[blows raspberry]
-[chuckling]
[blows raspberry]
melancholy music continues
[sighs]
Thank you, Lawrence.
Is this my fault?
Is what your fault?
You guys not talking.
We're talking.
We're just worried
about you, honey.
Well, I'm fine. There's
a new Secret Service agent
every time I open a door
around here.
[both] Good.
Mom and I think that Rumsfeld
and Cheney are having an affair.
[all chuckle]
Where in the world
did you come up with that?
Well, I thought
it would make you laugh.
You've both been
so serious lately.
There's just a lot
going on right now.
[Susan] I know.
But we're still here,
us, our family.
And 3,000 Secret Service agents.
That's right.
Your, uh...
your mother tells me
we're having a prom
here at the White House.
Wait. You said yes?
Well, I thought
it was decided already.
[Susan chuckling]
Oh, my God! Thank you!
Oh, my God.
[laughs]
Guess that means we'll be
hiring a rock and roll band.
Well, can we get The Who?
Who?
-[sighs]
-[laughs]
[Gerald] Gonna be a great prom.
Thank you. I'm so excited.
Thank you.
["Won't Get Fooled Again"
by The Who playing]
[protesters] Hey, hey! ERA!
Hey, hey! ERA!
The Equal Rights Amendment
tells our lawmakers:
describe by function,
not by gender.
Although there's
a Republican in the White House,
this is a season of discontent
for many members
of the Grand Old Party.
Many of its conservatives
regard President Ford
as far too liberal
in his fiscal policies
and in his appointments.
[reporter]   When Ronald Reagan
was a sportscaster
here in Des Moines
in the mid-1930s,
he was only
a very minor celebrity.
Today, he was
the biggest attraction in town.
[chattering]
Ladies?
May I have your attention?
[caller] I'm so sorry.
I'm gonna have to call you back.
First of all,
I wanna thank you all
for your wonderful hard work
these past few months.
You are all...
personally responsible
for helping us
-get closer to ratification.
-[person] Thank you, Mrs. Ford.
Unfortunately... today...
is the last day
we will be making calls here
from the White House.
-[gasping, murmuring]
-[person] What?
We need to pack up
our things and shut it down.
-Immediately.
-We can turn this around.
And we will.
Uh, but not from here.
Why?
I want you to know
this is, by all means,
not the end of the fight.
On the contrary, uh, I am--
We are all just getting started.
-[chattering]
-[person] I don't understand.
You really don't need
to do this.
I'm a target.
Doing this here is hurting,
not helping the movement, and...
it's hurting your dad.
We begin today's show
in North Carolina
where voters turned out
in large numbers
to pass
a constitutional amendment
that defines marriage as solely
between a man and a woman.
While North Carolina law
already bans same-sex marriage,
the amendment means civil unions
and potentially other types
of domestic partnerships
will no longer be
recognized legally by the state.
And make sure Cheryl gets me
all that footage. All right?
You know I'm talking about
the Bulls' game.
[chuckles] All right.
-[chattering]
-Hello, hello, hello!
-Hi, Mr. President!
-Hi!
How's it going? Look,
I got supplies for you.
All right. And how's it going?
-It's going pretty good.
-Going good.
It's going pretty good. Halfway
through my history essay.
[Barack] Halfway through.
Congratulations.
Yeah. Thank you. Did you see
the North Carolina results?
I did. So, uh, I am guessing
you're pretty disappointed.
-Very.
-[student] Yeah.
-Yeah.
Well, what do you
think about it?
Well, uh, before I answer that.
What-- How are
y'all feeling about it?
-It's terrible.
-Disappointed.
-It's not fair.
-It's discrimination.
-It's a real letdown on us.
-Yeah? Yep.
Um, do you think you're going
to say something about it?
Well, look. I guess
a lot of people would like
to hear me speak up on it and--
The-- The thing is, in politics,
there are, uh,
you know...
[chuckles]
[clicks tongue] Gotcha.
All right. Dig in,
get back to work.
[whispers] Do not tell
Mrs. Obama.
-She will actually kill me.
-[laughter]
-[all] Thank you!
-Thanks, Dad. Love you.
Love you too, babe.
Let's see, what type of pizza
is this?
-Hope it's cheese?
-Me too.
-Yes!
-[chuckling] Yay!
dramatic music
Is he alone, Missy?
-Yes, he's reading.
-Oh, good. Thank you.
Is now a good time?
Please. Sit.
Would you like a cup of tea?
[Eleanor] No. No, thank you.
I wanted to talk to you
about my friend Hick.
Lorena Hickok.
You know, the reporter.
I know who Hick is, Eleanor.
Of course. Um, well.
I was thinking that she could
come work
for the administration.
And she could write about
the New Deal programs,
their successes and challenges.
I will think about it.
Thank you.
On a related matter...
J. Edgar Hoover came
to talk to me the other day.
-[clears throat]
-Oh, yes?
And wanted to talk...
about you.
About me?
What on earth?
tense music
You've been spying
on me, Franklin?
Of course not. J. Edgar Hoover
did this all on his own.
But I have to say,
you made it rather easy for him.
[scoffs] I didn't realize
I was a person of interest
for Mr. Hoover.
Well, am I to assume
that this is...
some meaningless indiscretion?
No.
Not... meaningless.
But not until this very moment
did it even occur to me...
that you might have
found someone
who you would rather be with
than me.
Not rather.
Just different.
A woman.
Yes.
And you are happy with her?
I might be.
Right.
Your idea
of Hick working
for the administration,
it's a good one.
It is?
Yes. She's a great writer.
She is.
But if she were to write stories
about the New Deal
and its programs,
she would be
our boots on the ground.
She would spend much of the time
on the road.
Would you be fine with that?
Yes, I would.
Very well.
Thank you, Franklin.
As much as this pains me,
and it does...
I am happy for you
that you have found someone.
I feared I had taken that
away from you years ago.
So did I.
I've have instructed Mr. Hoover
to give me the negatives
and I will turn a blind eye.
But I cannot promise
that anyone else will.
Good night.
-[door opens]
-[Eleanor] Good night.
[door closes]
[Eleanor]   Just a few more steps.
I won't let you bump
into anything, I promise.
-[Lorena] Mm-hmm.
-Mmm, about right.
Well, just maybe--
maybe just turn. [chuckles]
[Lorena chuckles]
-I'm gonna going to let go now.
-Mm-mmm.
-I'm gonna let go.
-[exhales]
You'll be just fine.
I'll be right here.
You may open your eyes.
What's all this?
I've been decorating.
Embracing my wifely duties.
This desk is gorgeous.
I thought you would like it.
I had it made especially for you
at Val-Kill.
All of this is for you, Hick.
Thank you.
[chuckles]
I didn't want you
to feel responsible.
That's why I didn't tell you
I had resigned.
[Eleanor] I know.
[sighs] But I do.
And you didn't need to resign.
Well, I couldn't possibly think
of you objectively anymore.
Nor do I want you to.
But if there is one thing
that your exodus is good for...
is that when
you are not traveling...
you can be here.
[Lorena chuckles softly]
Right next to me.
[gasps] Well, how'd you manage
to have that done
without raising eyebrows?
Oh, well, that door
has been there forever.
There's been lots of
secret relations in this house.
Oh.
President Obama
has taken a historic stand
on an issue that
deeply divides the country:
same-sex marriage.
The president made his remarks
in an interview
with   Good Morning America's
Robin Roberts.
[Barack] This good? All right,
we got everyone ready?
[Robin] Okay.
[Barack]
I'm looking forward to it.
-[Robin] Ready?
-Sure.
One of the hot-button issues
because of things
that have been said by members
of your administration.
Same-sex marriage.
North Carolina
just became the 30th state
to announce
its ban on gay marriage.
Are you opposed
to same-sex marriage?
Well, it's important for me to,
uh, go ahead and affirm...
that I think same-sex couples
should be able to get married.
You know, uh, Malia and Sasha,
they've got friends whose
parents are same-sex couples.
And, uh, there've been times
where, uh, Michelle and I
have been sitting around
the dinner table
and we've been talking about
their friends and parents.
And for Malia and Sasha,
it wouldn't dawn on them
that somehow
their friends' parents
should be treated
any differently.
Ah, it just doesn't make sense.
So if you could,
you would vote
to legalize same-sex marriage?
I would, yeah. Absolutely.
["Enola Gay" by Orchestral
Manoeuvres In The Dark playing]
-[demonstrators chanting]
-The Supreme Court has affirmed.
Same-sex marriage
is the law of the land.
It is a constitutional right
for gay and lesbian couples
to marry in every state
in this country
which means all 50 states now.
[crowd cheering, whooping]
Enola Gay
You should have
stayed at home yesterday
Ah-ha, words can't describe